Filip intro blog post (#625)
wasp-lang/wasp: web/blog/2022-05-31-filip-intro.md

---
title: Meet the team - Filip Sodić, Founding Engineer
authors: [matijasos]
image: /img/shayne-intro-banner.png
tags: [wasp, new-hire]
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import InBlogCta from './components/InBlogCta';
import WaspIntro from './_wasp-intro.md';

![Welcome Filip!](../static/img/shayne-intro-banner.png)

Find Filip on [GitHub](https://github.com/sodic).

<!--truncate-->

<WaspIntro />
<InBlogCta />

#### Let’s start with two truths and a lie about yourself.

- I found out about Wasp through a friend/former colleague and still haven’t
  bought him a drink to say thanks.

> - I’ve created my own Turing-complete functional programming language that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- I’ve designed and implemented my own Turing-complete functional programming language that
```

  compiles to JavaScript.
- I wasted nearly 30 hours customizing my setup to maximize productivity and
  probably ended up in a less productive state

#### Which statement was the lie above? Any interesting stories to share?

The last one was a lie. I wish it were only 30 hours :)

I did create my own language, but it’s still far from being practical. For one,

> it can’t print anything to the screen (or perform any side effects).

Reviewer 2: Where is link to your language, to github repo. We want link, we want link

Author: Another rickroll or the real thing?

I never did buy that drink. He’s not letting me forget about it, though.

#### Why did you join Wasp? What did you do before?

> I've wanted a job where I'd get a chance to design a language and build a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I've wanted to work on a project where I'd get a chance to design a language and build a
```

Author: I see you guys have thrown out all the traditional corporate terms (job, company, etc.) :laughing:

compiler for quite some time now. While I did develop my own language on the
side (and even graduated with it), I thought getting paid for doing something
similar this early in my career was pretty far-fetched.

Almost all my paid work had something to do with the web, whether on the
client-side or the server-side. I enjoy nearly all parts of web development
(yes, even styling websites with CSS :), but one thing I've always found
annoying was dealing with all the boilerplate. Whenever I start building
something, I spend most of my time implementing the same repetitive stuff
(e.g., authentication, databases, SPA routing, API routes, etc.) and relearning
all the best practices that come with it.

And then, one day, a friend of mine mentioned Wasp - a DSL aiming to eliminate
boilerplate from web apps. The product was a perfect fit based on everything I
know and want to do! Also, the founders (Martin and Matija) and I shared an
advisor in college, and I've only heard great things about them.

> The whole thing sounded almost too good to be true, so joining the company was

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The whole thing sounded almost too good to be true, so joining them in working on Wasp was
```

Author: I think "joining them to work on Wasp" is correct, but am not sure. I'll see what Grammarly says.

Author: No help there unfortunately, let's ask our dedicated native speaker @shayneczyzewski.

Reviewer 3: I think both are probably valid, but I'd prefer "joining them to work on Wasp" over "joining them in working on Wasp". The latter has a slightly overly formal tone to me.  🤷🏻‍♂️

an easy decision.

#### What is your favorite language?

I don’t have many favorite things, especially when it comes to technology.
After going through several cycles of falling in love with a
language/framework/tool before becoming annoyed by its shortcomings and
limitations, I made peace with the fact that everything’s a tradeoff. I’ll
generally choose a language depending on:
- the problem at hand
- its current position in the aforementioned cycle :)

With that said, I'm currently most excited about properly learning Haskell. It
always looked interesting and exotic. I did get a few chances to use
the language through university courses and on my own, but I've never really had an excuse to
use it in my day-to-day.

## What are you most excited about in Wasp?

From a developer’s perspective, I’m definitely most excited about designing the
DSL and working on the compiler.

From a product standpoint, I love the idea of never again having to implement
an authentication system.

#### What’s a feature or project you’re most proud of that you worked on in the past three months?

> [Definitely this thing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ).

Reviewer 2: Oh no you didn't

Reviewer: oh it's a deep burn

#### How did you start coding?

No exciting story to tell here, I’m afraid.

I enrolled in computer science college and first started programming as a part
of my regular “Introduction to programming” course.

Before then, I didn’t really know what programming was. In fact, I  wanted to
study electrical engineering. Unluckily for most but luckily for me, our
college does not let you choose your major (i.e., electrical engineering or
computing) right away. Instead, they make you go through a common year of
universal (and some not-so-universal) courses, only allowing you to specialize

> at the start of your second year. Thanks to this quirk, I had a chance to

Reviewer 2: quirk -> or is it a feature :D!?

encounter programming, change my mind, and enroll in computer science.

#### Your dev setup?

As far as hardware goes, it’s pretty basic. I use a regular laptop that’s
starting to show signs of age (ASUS N550JX), a cheap Lenovo mouse, and my
laptop’s integrated keyboard.

The software setup is a bit more interesting. I’m usually on Manjaro Linux with
the i3 tiling window manager. I jump between editors depending on what I’m
doing. It’s usually either VS Code, Vim, or one of JetBrains IDEs, but I use
Vim emulation no matter where I am. My preferred shell is zsh (sorry Frane).

#### `camelCase` or `snake_case`?

> NoPreference

Reviewer 2: lol

Reviewer: you should have written `no_Preference` for ultimate heresy :D

#### What is your current favorite gem, library, tool, or anything else that helps you with your work? Why?

That would have to be [ranger](https://github.com/ranger/ranger)!

Ranger is a terminal file manager I use daily, mainly because it makes my work
in the shell much faster. It also gives me a consistent interface for moving
around, previewing files, and interacting with the file system. In other words,
my workflow doesn't have to change much regardless of where I am (Mac, Linux
Desktop, or Linux server).

#### One piece of advice you’d give to budding developers?

It’s easy to get stuck in an endless loop of polishing and fine-tuning your
projects because you think they aren’t ready yet. Good enough sometimes truly
is good enough and things can often be considered done before _you_ consider them
done.

> I still occasionally need to give this advice to myself :)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I still occasionally need to give this advice to myself :).
```

####  Lastly, where can people find or connect with you online?

GitHub: [https://github.com/sodic](https://github.com/sodic)

LinkedIn: [https://www.linkedin.com/in/filipsodic/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/filipsodic/)

> Email: filip@wasp-lang.dev

Reviewer 2: Is banner below wrong since it has shayne's face? Which I love, but I thought you guys look a bit different.

Reviewer: yep, I am now making a correct banner with Filip's face :D

> Email: filip@wasp-lang.dev

Reviewer: maybe don't share your email, so recruiters and bots don't spam you?

Author: Good idea.
